# Random-projection emsemble dimension reduction
We introduce a new framework for dimension reduction in the context of high-dimensional regression. Our proposal is to aggregate an ensemble of random projections, which have been carefully chosen based on the empirical regression performance after being applied to the covariates. More precisely, we consider disjoint groups of independent random projections, apply a base regression method after each projection, and retain the projection in each group based on the empirical performance. We aggregate the selected projections by taking the singular value decomposition of their empirical average and then output the leading order singular vectors. A particularly appealing aspect of our approach is that the singular values provide a measure of the relative importance of the corresponding projection directions, which can be used to select the final projection dimension. We investigate in detail (and provide default recommendations for) various aspects of our general framework, including the projection distribution and the base regression method, as well as the number of random projections used. Additionally, we investigate the possibility of further reducing the dimension by applying our algorithm twice in cases where projection dimension recommended in the initial application is too large. Our theoretical results show that the error of our algorithm stabilises as the number of groups of projections increases. We demonstrate the excellent empirical performance of our proposal in a large numerical study using simulated and real data.
### Functions to Use ###
* RPEDR
